..
   Copyright (c) 2021 Paul Barker <paul@pbarker.dev>
   SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-ND-4.0

Week Notes: 2022-W02
====================

:date: 2022-01-17
:tags: week-notes
:summary:

Open Source
-----------

* Updated `meta-linux-mainline
  <https://git.sr.ht/~pbarker/meta-linux-mainline>`_ for the first time in a
  couple of months after fixing a build issue which appeared back at the start
  of November. The fix was to backport a kernel patch introduced back in April
  '21 to the earlier 5.10.y, 5.4.y and 4.19.y series. The backport is staged in
  meta-linux-mainline for now and `has been requested upstream via the
  linux-stable list
  <https://lore.kernel.org/stable/04598430-7383-b725-2f5f-3f2b16aaca36@sancloud.com/>`_.

* Also requested that the addition of the ``python3-dtschema-wrapper`` recipe to
  openembedded-core be backported to `dunfell
  <https://lore.kernel.org/openembedded-core/20220114132224.2679-1-paul.barker@sancloud.com/>`_
  and `honister
  <https://lore.kernel.org/openembedded-core/20220114132150.2604-1-paul.barker@sancloud.com/>`_
  to allow Linux v5.16 kernels to build for ARM targets on those branches.

Watching
--------

* Season 2 of The Witcher. We devoured all 8 episodes over a couple of days and
  really enjoyed it. I found it much easier to follow than the first season and
  I got much more feel for the characters. We're already looking forward to
  season 3!

Drinking
--------

* `Christmas Cake & Dark Chocolate & Medjool Dates & Cinnamon 8 Year Old
  <https://www.masterofmalt.com/whiskies/christmas-cake-and-dark-chocolate-and-medjool-dates-and-cinnamon/christmas-cake-and-dark-chocolate-and-medjool-dates-and-cinnamon-8-year-old-whisky/?srh=1>`_
  48% ABV Speyside Single Malt Scotch Whisky. Tastes like Christmas in a glass.
  It may not be Christmas any more but we have plenty of dark January nights
  ahead and this is very much appreciated.

Listening
---------

* `Drone Carrying Dread <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5BrAAXCbUXE>`_
  by Author & Punisher. I'm so excited for the new album "Krüller" coming out
  Feb 11th this year. There's a good chance it'll be ending up in my top 10 of
  the year. The album can be pre-ordered `on bandcamp
  <https://authorandpunisher.bandcamp.com/album/kr-ller>`_.

.. youtube:: 5BrAAXCbUXE
