..
   Copyright (c) 2021 Paul Barker <paul@pbarker.dev>
   SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-ND-4.0

Week Notes: 2022-W03 & 2022-W04
===============================

:date: 2022-02-01
:tags: week-notes
:summary:

General
-------

* Wrote to Carla and Adrian, the co-leaders of the Green Party of England &
  Wales, to highlight the endemic transphobia in the party. It's exceptionally
  disappointing to see this in an organisation that prides itself on fighting
  for social justice and being LGBTQIA+ friendly. Unfortunately though, if these
  issues aren't taken seriously and addressed then I'll be resigning my party
  membership.

* Lost some time due to my Linux build machine having a fall out with one of its
  NVMe drives. Looks like the thing still mounts correctly but runs into errors
  as soon as I try to write data to the drive. I've switched back to running
  builds on a spinning rust HDD for now, hopefully will be able to test out the
  NVMe drive in another machine and determine if its broken soon.

Open Source
-----------

* Updated `meta-linux-mainline
  <https://git.sr.ht/~pbarker/meta-linux-mainline>`_ to pull in new kernel
  versions including v5.17-rc1. Switched the LTS kernel branch to v5.15.y.

* I found some very, very strange Python behavior. It probably has a good
  reason for behaving this way but I find it completely counter-intuitive.
  Tripped me up and took a couple of hours to really get my head around why our
  code wasn't working.

    * The following code prints 4, 4, 4, 4, 4::

        fns = []
        for i in range(5):
            fns.append(lambda: print(i))

        for f in fns:
            f()

    * The following code, where the closure is instead created inside a separate
      function, prints 0, 1, 2, 3, 4::

        def make_closure(i):
            return lambda: print(i)

        fns = []
        for i in range(5):
            fns.append(make_closure(i))

        for f in fns:
            f()

Reading
-------

* Proven Guilty and White Night by Jim Butcher. I really enjoy 99% of the
  Dresden Files, the audiobooks read by James Marsters are fantastic, the urban
  fantasy setting is both fun and interesting. The slowly unfolding picture of
  how the events in different books in the series are linked is great and keeps
  me reading more. But, stars and stones (to use a Dresden expression), the
  unnecessary sexualization of women in this series is painful.

Watching
--------

* `Line Goes Up – The Problem With NFTs
  <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YQ_xWvX1n9g>`_,
  a video essay from Folding Ideas (aka Dan Olson).
  This is a much-needed, in-depth, critical look at NFTs and cryptocurrency.
  It's pretty much required viewing for anyone in or adjacent to tech or
  internet culture. It's a long video but it's worth every minute of your time.

.. youtube:: YQ_xWvX1n9g

Listening
---------

* `Revel in Time <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-fHN4Qceip4>`_
  by Star One.

.. youtube:: -fHN4Qceip4
