..
   Copyright (c) 2021 Paul Barker <paul@pbarker.dev>
   SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-ND-4.0

Week Notes: 2022-W01
====================

:date: 2022-01-10
:tags: week-notes
:summary:

General
-------

* I'm going to make more use of both of my twitter accounts this year. See
  `this thread <https://twitter.com/pbarker_dev/status/1477266200656756736>`_
  for a summary.

  * `@pbarker_dev`_ will mostly stay focused on tech, open source and tech
    policy issues.

  * `@atonalnoise`_ will be my outlet for music related spam and occasional
    thoughts on books & films.

* I'm intending to post week notes like this each week, subject to my bandwidth,
  physical health and mental health. I'll be taking breaks as and when I want to
  and you should do the same. Be excellent to yourselves in 2022.

Open Source
-----------

* Setting up a couple of new projects on GitHub as it's the most visible place
  to host open source projects. It's also much improved over the last couple of
  years with GitHub Actions, VS Code integration, Discussion, etc. Since hosting
  projects under an organisation gives more flexibility, most projects will live
  under a new `Unnecessary Abstraction`_ organisation.

* Created initial skeleton of `arcr`_ project just before the new year. This
  will be a tool to help preserve archival data by storing checksums and/or
  signatures, supporting a regular scrub to ensure data has not been lost or
  corrupted and enabling archive exports (with optional encryption) for long
  term offline or off-site storage.

  * This will address my key concern with using traditional backup tools for
    archival data - if backups are kept for a finite length of time but archived
    data is only accessed very infrequently, data loss may occur and not be
    noticed until the good backups have expired and been deleted.

  * Other projects do exist for handling archival data but none of them have the
    simplicity or focus that I want. Hopefully this approach will be useful to
    other folks as well.

* Moved `mirrorshades`_ over to GitHub and setup CI using GitHub Actions.
  Updated the readme & project config to reflect the new URLs and contribution
  methods. Fixed a couple of issues I found when using mirrorshades to backup
  data to a new disk array. Also made a couple of minor agent improvements and
  updated the changelog to prepare for a new release. Recent changes can be seen
  in `pull request #1
  <https://github.com/unnecessary-abstraction/mirrorshades/pull/1>`_.

* Videos of my talks at the Yocto Project Summit 2021.11 are now available on
  YouTube:

  * `An Overview of the Hash Equivalence & PR Services
    <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NwMNv9EDl14>`_
    (duration: 21m49s)

  * `Yocto Project lore: New mailing list tools
    <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nHtcDqnO2zY>`_
    (duration: 15m58s)

Reading
-------

* `My first impressions of web3
  <https://moxie.org/2022/01/07/web3-first-impressions.html>`_
  by Moxie Marlinspike.

  * This post addresses a really clear issue with all the web3 hype: What is
    being touted as web3 isn't very decentralized and suffers from the same
    incentive issues we see in "web2". It's likely that web3 will tend towards
    the same sort of centralized mega-platforms we see already (e.g. Facebook,
    Google, Amazon) but with some climate-destroying and inequality-generating
    cryptocurrency dust sprinkled on top.

* `On Fire
  <https://www.penguin.co.uk/books/314/314933/on-fire/9780141991306.html>`_
  by Naomi Klein.

  * Subtitled "The Burning Case for a Green New Deal", this is a book of essays
    on climate change, climate justice and the prospective of a "Green New
    Deal"; written between 2010 and 2019.

  * I've read 7 of the essays in this book so far. I've also read most of
    Naomi Klein's previous books over the last 20 years, I'm familiar with her
    thinking and it has heavily influenced mine. I think this book is an
    excellent introduction to her work. The essay "Capitalism vs. the Climate"
    is an especially good place to start for someone unfamiliar with Naomi's
    outlook and really captures the changes we need to see in politics and
    economic thinking to tackle climate change.

Watching
--------

* `Jill Bearup throws Tom Scott through a window
  <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HwuwgJR2Qg8>`_
  from Tom's YouTube channel and
  `Tom Scott Walked Into a Bar
  <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=leKKoIjeucs>`_
  from Jill's YouTube channel. Great fun all around.

Listening
---------

* `Jenny of Oldstones <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uO4qhtGij_0>`_
  by The Dark Side of the Moon. This has been stuck in my head
  for months and I doubt it'll be leaving any time soon.

.. youtube:: uO4qhtGij_0

.. _Unnecessary Abstraction: https://github.com/unnecessary-abstraction
.. _arcr: https://github.com/unnecessary-abstraction/arcr
.. _mirrorshades: https://github.com/unnecessary-abstraction/mirrorshades
.. _@pbarker_dev: https://twitter.com/pbarker_dev
.. _@atonalnoise: https://twitter.com/atonalnoise
